Condor is an workload management system for compute-intensive tasks. It is used in production environments for more than 15 years, so it is considered a stable and mature project.

== Highlights ==

* Preserves user environment on remote machine
* Users need not make files available or have access to remote machine

== Condor Components ==

* Job queuing
* Scheduling policy
* Priority mechanism
* Resource monitoring
* Resource management

== NovaSeach Condor setup ==

This section details the Condor setup on our cluster.

We have four [[Cluster#Hardware|nodes]] with 6 real cores (12 HT threads). 

All threads are available for condor, meaning we have 48 Condor slots, named slot<number>@<machine>.novasearch.org.

=== Important information ===

Each user has a '''48GB memory limit''' on each machine; each slot has a '''5GB memory limit'''.

You must take these limits into account, so that your jobs don't get killed as you reach the limit.

== Usage ==

=== Create a submit file ===

$ vi sim.submit

    Executable = sim
    Input = sim.in
    Output = sim.out
    Log = sim.log
    Queue

=== Submit the job ===

$ condor_submit sim.submit

=== Watch progress ===

$ condor_q

=== Running many processes ===

The real benefit of Condor comes from managing 1000s of jobs.

$ vi sim.submit

    Executable = sim
    Input = sim.$(PROCESS)
    Output = sim.$(PROCESS)
    Log = sim.log
    Queue 1000

=== Running many processes with different arguments ===

    Executable = sim
    Arguments = $(PROCESS)
    Output = sim.$(PROCESS)
    Log = sim.log
    Queue 1000

Will execute 1000 processes with the process id as a parameter: sim 0, sim 1, sim 2, ... , sim 999

If you need to change multiple arguments, you can set the shared parameters at the beginning and change the required parameters

    Executable = sim 
    Output = sim.$(PROCESS)
    Log = sim.log
    
    Arguments = a    
    Output = a.out
    Queue
    
    Arguments = b
    Output = b.out
    Queue
    
    Arguments = c
    Output = c.out
    Queue

Will execute 3 processes with the selected parameters: sim a, sim b, sim c and will output to a.out, b.out, c.out respectively.

If you have many parameter combinations, we suggest you generate this condor file with a script.

=== Other useful parameters ===

    getenv = True

This parameter shares the local environmental variables with the remote environment. This is useful if you want to share global library paths.

    initialdir = <path>

Sets the base execution path of the execution. Useful to reference files with relative paths.

    Requirements = (Machine == "arthur.novasearch.org")

Restricts the job to run on machines that satisfy the requirement. On this example, the jobs will only be deployed to '''arthur'''.